- [Instructor] As promised in the last video,
now it's time to use Thymeleaf.
Now we're going to touch
just a very, very small part of Thymeleaf.
I encourage you to read the documentation,
it's actually fantastic,
on how to use Thymeleaf most effectively.
I'm also going to warn you before we jump into the UI here
that I am not a UI developer, I am not a designer.
This is not going to be pretty.
This will get the job done,
but I don't want to make any qualms
that this is a production ready page
by any sense of the work,
because I am not very good at designing web pages.
I'm good at designing web services.
So with that being said, time to hit the IDE.
The first thing that we need to do is open up our pom file,
and we're going to create a new dependency
and that dependency is spring-boot-starter-thymeleaf
from org.springframework.boot.
We will run Maven.
Now with Thymeleaf back in the day before Spring Boot,
we used to have to do a lot of configuration
to tell it where the templates were,
what file extensions to strip off of the names,
things like that.
With Spring Boot, we have to do none of that.
We simply have to go to source main resources
and in our template folder,
we're going to create a new file.
And I'm going to cheat a little bit and use the HTML file
that I get from my IDE.
You can do this with a plain file.
Ultimately, we're going to create a file called roomrez,
which is the string that we returned from our controller,
that is an HTML file.
All right, so the first thing we need to do
is go to the HTML tag and we need to put an XML namespace.
We're going to call it TH
and it is at HTTP://www.thymeleaf.org.
I put one too many double quotes there, let me fix that.
Now we are going to create a title
and the title is going to be Landon hotel room reservations.
We will put an H1 tag in here
and just say, welcome to the reservations page.
And now we're going to put a table
and this is where we're going to really get into the Thymeleaf.
So be sure you pay attention to what we're doing,
but before we get there, let's put in a few headers.
So we're going to spit out a room, a room number
and a guest.
We'll create another row.
But this time we're going to do a Thymeleaf each
and this is how you iterate over items in Thymeleaf.
So we're going to get an instance of a room reservation
and notice these are strings and not objects.
So it doesn't really know what a room reservation is.
It just is expecting that there will be an element
that is a room reservation that we're going to do work with.
So we will get a room reservation,
and we're going to get that from some element
called room reservations that comes from the model.
Pretty straightforward.
It says, create an instance of some object from the model,
call it room reservation, and then do something with it.
And that thing that we're going to do
is we're going to populate our actual cells
and we're going to do it with text.
So we will do TH text
and this is going to come from our model,
but this time it's the iteration from within there.
So we are going to do room reservation in curly braces.
And then we will do room name as the actual element name.
And I'll get to explain that here in just a moment.
For the meantime, let's go through
and finish up the rest of this.
So roomReservation.roomNumber.
And the final one is a little bit more complex.
One of the cool things about Thymeleaf
is that we can actually put into our Thymeleaf, logic.
So we're going to say roomReservation.lastName.
So if our last name does not equal null,
and we'll put it in a ternary operator here.
So if it does not equal null,
the value is roomReservation.lastName,
plus we'll do a single tick, a comma, a space, another plus.
And in this element,
we will put roomReservation.firstName.
So if we are not null, put in last name, comma, first name.
Otherwise, simply print the word vacant.
And now we will just put a tag of guests here.
Now you'll notice that we put these elements in ourselves,
even though we know we've got dynamic data.
The reason that we do that is if you open this page up
in a browser without the website actually running,
it renders in the browser as fully qualified HTML.
So your designers could take this page and design it
while you finish up the rest of the work,
hand it back to you,
drop it into source control, and you're good to go.
But with this site,
we're going to go ahead and run this.
Allow spring to come up, refresh our page,
go to room reservations, and you will see,
we now populate all of our data
and everything came out as vacant on today's date.
Now, if we go back up to the URL
and we put in a date element of 2022, 01, 01,
you will see now we populate a name
because we have a room reservation record
in Cambridge C2 for Judith Young.